# Approov Token Quickstart

This quickstart is for developers familiar with PHP who are looking for a quick intro into how they can add [Approov](https://approov.io) into an existing project. Therefore this will guide you through the necessary steps for adding Approov to an existing PHP API server.

## TOC - Table of Contents

* [Why?](#why)
* [How it Works?](#how-it-works)
* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Approov Setup](#approov-setup)
* [Approov Token Check](#approov-token-check)
* [Try the Approov Integration Example](#try-the-approov-integration-example)


## Why?

To lock down your API server to your mobile app. Please read the brief summary in the [README](/README.md#why) at the root of this repo or visit our [website](https://approov.io/product.html) for more details.

[TOC](#toc---table-of-contents)


## How it works?

For more background, see the overview in the [README](/README.md#how-it-works) at the root of this repo.

The main functionality for the Approov token check is in the file [src/approov-protected-server/token-check/hello-server-protected.php](/src/approov-protected-server/token-check/hello-server-protected.php). Take a look at the `verifyApproovToken()` function to see the simple code for the check.

[TOC](#toc---table-of-contents)


## Requirements

To complete this quickstart you will need both the PHP and the Approov CLI tool installed.

* PHP - Follow the official installation instructions from [here](https://www.php.net/manual/en/install.php)
* Approov CLI - Follow our [installation instructions](https://approov.io/docs/latest/approov-installation/#approov-tool) and read more about each command and its options in the [documentation reference](https://approov.io/docs/latest/approov-cli-tool-reference/)

[TOC](#toc---table-of-contents)


## Approov Setup

To use Approov with the PHP API server we need a small amount of configuration. First, Approov needs to know the API domain that will be protected. Second, the PHP API server needs the Approov Base64 encoded secret that will be used to verify the tokens generated by the Approov cloud service.

### Configure API Domain

Approov needs to know the domain name of the API for which it will issue tokens.

Add it with:

```text
approov api -add your.api.domain.com
```

Adding the API domain also configures the [dynamic certificate pinning](https://approov.io/docs/latest/approov-usage-documentation/#approov-dynamic-pinning) setup, out of the box.

> **NOTE:** By default the pin is extracted from the public key of the leaf certificate served by the domain, as visible to the box issuing the Approov CLI command and the Approov servers.

### Approov Secret

Approov tokens are signed with a symmetric secret. To verify tokens, we need to grab the secret using the [Approov secret command](https://approov.io/docs/latest/approov-cli-tool-reference/#secret-command) and plug it into the PHP API server environment to check the signatures of the [Approov Tokens](https://www.approov.io/docs/latest/approov-usage-documentation/#approov-tokens) that it processes.

Retrieve the Approov secret with:

```text
approov secret /path/to/approov/administration.tok -get base64
```

> **NOTE:** The `approov secret` command requires an administration management token to execute successfully. Developer management tokens don't have sufficient privileges to get the secret.

#### Set the Approov Secret

Open the `.env` file and add the Approov secret to the var:

```text
APPROOV_BASE64_SECRET=approov_base64_secret_here
```

[TOC](#toc---table-of-contents)


## Approov Token Check

To check the Approov token we will use the [firebase/php-jwt](https://github.com/firebase/php-jwt) package, but you are free to use another one of your preference.

Add this code to your project:

```php
$env = Dotenv\Dotenv::createArrayBacked(__DIR__)->load();

if (empty($env['APPROOV_BASE64_SECRET'])) {
    throw new Exception("Missing in the .env file the variable: APPROOV_BASE64_SECRET");
}

define('APPROOV_BASE64_SECRET', base64_decode($env['APPROOV_BASE64_SECRET'], true));

function verifyApproovToken(Array $headers): ?stdClass {
    try {
        if (empty($headers['Approov-Token'])) {
            // You may want to add some logging here
            return null;
        }

        $approov_token = $headers['Approov-Token'];

        return \Firebase\JWT\JWT::decode($approov_token, constant('APPROOV_BASE64_SECRET'), ['HS256']);

    } catch(\UnexpectedValueException $exception) {
        // You may want to add some logging here
        return null;
    } catch(\InvalidArgumentException $exception) {
        // You may want to add some logging here
        return null;
    } catch(\DomainException $exception) {
        // You may want to add some logging here
        return null;
    }

    // You may want to add some logging here
    return null;
}
```

Now you just need to invoke `verifyApproovToken()` function for the endpoints you want to protected:

```php
$headers = getallheaders();
$approov_token_claims = verifyApproovToken($headers);

if (!$approov_token_claims) {
    sendResponse(401, []);
    exit;
}
```

> **NOTE:** When the Approov token validation fails we return a `401` with an empty body, because we don't want to give clues to an attacker about the reason the request failed, and you can go even further by returning a `400`.

A full working example for a simple Hello World server can be found at [src/approov-protected-server/token-check](/src/approov-protected-server/token-check).

[TOC](#toc---table-of-contents)


## Test your Approov Integration

The following examples below use cURL, but you can also use the [Postman Collection](/README.md#testing-with-postman) to make the API requests. Just remember that you need to adjust the urls and tokens defined in the collection to match your deployment. Alternatively, the above README also contains instructions for using the preset _dummy_ secret to test your Approov integration.

#### With Valid Approov Tokens

Generate a valid token example from the Approov Cloud service:

```text
approov token -genExample your.api.domain.com
```

Then make the request with the generated token:

```text
curl -i --request GET 'https://your.api.domain.com' \
  --header 'Approov-Token: APPROOV_TOKEN_EXAMPLE_HERE'
```

The request should be accepted. For example:

```text
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

...

{"message": "Hello, World!"}
```

#### With Invalid Approov Tokens

Generate an invalid token example from the Approov Cloud service:

```text
approov token -type invalid -genExample your.api.domain.com
```

Then make the request with the generated token:

```text
curl -i --request GET 'https://your.api.domain.com' \
  --header 'Approov-Token: APPROOV_INVALID_TOKEN_EXAMPLE_HERE'
```

The above request should fail with an Unauthorized error. For example:

```text
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized

...

{}
```
